## Jenkins workflow

1. A build script containing the various targets for executing the build cycle activities is available(pl. refer earlier section on build automation)

2. These targets are used by Jenkins for orchestration

3. Jenkins is configured -

4. Paths to the executables of tools are provided

5. Users are created with permissions

6. Environmental variables are set(ex.Java_HOME ,MVN_Home)

7. Plugins for the required tools are uploaded

8. Email configurations are done

9. The frequency interval for integration (ie. start of orchestration) is configured

10. The repository from which the code and test cases are to be pulled is configured

11. The jobs (upstream and downstream) (invoker and invoked respectively) are configured as per the build lifecycle

12. Gating conditions are configured

13. Mailer configuration (to list, mail body and when) is done so that notifications can be made (ex. when build is broken)

14. A pipeline view is created to see the status of the builds

15. Reports of unit testing and coverage are configured to view on Jenkins dashboard itself

## Practical tips

* Everyone commits at least once a day

* Broken code should not be submitted

* Keep the build fast

* Replace dependencies with mocks

* 100% of tests must pass for every build

* Fixing broken builds is of the highest priority

* Review of reports generated by the build

* Avoid getting broken code for updation

* Write automated tests

* Run private builds before committing code to central repository

* Automate the deployment

* Use clean coding and emergent design principles
